docs/installation/vanilla-installation.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Vanilla
parent: Installation
nav_order: 3
---

# Vanilla installation
{: .no_toc }

Cockroach can be used as a header-only library. It helps installing several point cloud processing and bridge them. This section show you how to install and use Cockroach Vanilla flavour via CMake.

Author: [Andrea Settimi](andrea.settimi@epfl.ch)

{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

---

# Windows

## First things first: CMake!

First thing first install CMake. CMake is a must for dealing with files and libraries in C++ based projects. 

If you haven't installed it yet, download the .[msi](https://cmake.org/) from their website. Any version after `3.1. ..` will do. Run the wizard for your x63 Windows system and everything should be fine.

CMake should be now installed into your environment variables. Just check it by going `Start Menu (⊞ Win)` > type `Edit environment variables for your account` > click on `Environment Variables...` button on the bottom left of the pannel > on `System variables` pannel look for the entry voice `Path` and doube-click it. You should see that a directory pointing to your `bin` folder of CMake (e.g., in my case `C:\Program Files\CMake\bin`). In case add it, close and you are good to go.

## Install dependecies

If you haven't installed dependecies yet in your system you would need to this first.

For the current `Cockroach version 1.0.1` you will need to install the following dependecies:

- [Eigen](https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen.git)
- [Open3D](https://github.com/isl-org/Open3D)
- [Cilantro](https://github.com/kzampog/cilantro)

Let's start by installing Eigen first.

### Eigen

Open your Windows terminal or cmd. It is important in general to open it with `Admin authorization` (`Start Menu (⊞ Win)` > click on `Run as Administrator`).

In the terminal type the following:

```terminal
cd C:\
```
Clone the repo

```terminal
git clone https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen.git
```
> 💬 *If git doesn't work it's because you need to install git and add it to your path variables*

Go into the directory

```terminal
cd eigen
```
Create a folder to put the project configurated by CMake

```terminal
mkdir build
```
Let's configure the project
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64
```
Let's install it (we don't need to build it because Eigen is a *header-only* library)
```terminal
cmake --build build --config release --target install
```

### Open3D

Next, let's install Open3D.

```terminal
cd C:\
git clone https://github.com/isl-org/Open3D.git
cd open3d
mkdir build
```
Let's configure the project:
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DBUILD_PYTHON_MODULE=OFF -DBUILD_CACHED_CUDA_MANAGER=OFF -DBUILD_WEBRTC=OFF
```
Differently to *header-only* libraries, we need to first to build it:
```terminal
cmake --build build --config Release --target ALL_BUILD
```
And to install it:
```terminal
cmake --build build --config Release --target INSTALL
```

### Cilantro

Same procedure with different settings. The following snippet contains everything but execute line by line in the terminal.

```terminal
cd C:\
git clone https://github.com/kzampog/cilantro.git
cd cilantro
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX="C:\Program Files\cilantro"
cmake --build build --config Release --target ALL_BUILD
cmake --build build --config Release --target INSTALL
```
That's it for the dependecies!

## Cockroach

Once all the dependecies are isntalled we can install Cockroach.

Cockroach `v.1.0.1` is a header-only library with one single header interface due to its contained size. We don't need to build the library, just installing the headers.

```terminal
cd C:\
git clone https://github.com/ibois-epfl/Cockroach.git
cd cockroach
```
Let's configure and install Cockroach:
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64
cmake --build build --config Release --target install
```

By default, Cockroach will be installed in `C:\Program FIles\Cockroach`.

## Usage

Time to test if Cockroach is working. The example project `examples\show_bug` can be used as template to use Cockroach.

```terminal
cd C:\cockroach\examples\show_bug
mkdir build
```
Configure the projeect
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64
```
Build the project
```terminal
cmake --build build --config Release
```
or alternatively by using the MSbuild.exe. Just be sure that it is in your environment path.
```terminal
MSBuild.exe -t:rebuild build/<name-of-the-project>.sln /property:Configuration=Release
```
And just launch the producecd .exe file
```terminal
"build\Release\show_bug.exe"
```
If everything is working, you should be able to visualize this "bug":

![showthebug](https://github.com/ibois-epfl/Cockroach-documentation/blob/docu-alpha/img/snap_bug_success.PNG?raw=true)

Commit message:

add indication to compile VScode + C++ package for windows

docs/installation/vanilla-installation.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Vanilla
parent: Installation
nav_order: 3
---

# Vanilla installation
{: .no_toc }

Cockroach can be used as a header-only library. It helps installing several point cloud processing and bridge them. This section show you how to install and use Cockroach Vanilla flavour via CMake.

Author: [Andrea Settimi](andrea.settimi@epfl.ch)

{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }

---

# Windows

## First things first: CMake!

First thing first install CMake. CMake is a must for dealing with files and libraries in C++ based projects. 

If you haven't installed it yet, download the .[msi](https://cmake.org/) from their website. Any version after `3.1. ..` will do. Run the wizard for your x63 Windows system and everything should be fine.

CMake should be now installed into your environment variables. Just check it by going `Start Menu (⊞ Win)` > type `Edit environment variables for your account` > click on `Environment Variables...` button on the bottom left of the pannel > on `System variables` pannel look for the entry voice `Path` and doube-click it. You should see that a directory pointing to your `bin` folder of CMake (e.g., in my case `C:\Program Files\CMake\bin`). In case add it, close and you are good to go.

> ⚠️ if you do not have a *Visual Studio* and *C++ support for windows* be sure to download it and install it, for more info how to do it go [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/vscpp-step-0-installation?view=msvc-170).  

## Install dependecies

If you haven't installed dependecies yet in your system you would need to this first.

For the current `Cockroach version 1.0.1` you will need to install the following dependecies:

- [Eigen](https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen.git)
- [Open3D](https://github.com/isl-org/Open3D)
- [Cilantro](https://github.com/kzampog/cilantro)

Let's start by installing Eigen first.

### Eigen

Open your Windows terminal or cmd. It is important in general to open it with `Admin authorization` (`Start Menu (⊞ Win)` > click on `Run as Administrator`).

In the terminal type the following:

```terminal
cd C:\
```
Clone the repo

```terminal
git clone https://gitlab.com/libeigen/eigen.git
```
> 💬 *If git doesn't work it's because you need to install git and add it to your path variables*

Go into the directory

```terminal
cd eigen
```
Create a folder to put the project configurated by CMake

```terminal
mkdir build
```
Let's configure the project
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64
```
Let's install it (we don't need to build it because Eigen is a *header-only* library)
```terminal
cmake --build build --config release --target install
```

### Open3D

Next, let's install Open3D.

```terminal
cd C:\
git clone https://github.com/isl-org/Open3D.git
cd open3d
mkdir build
```
Let's configure the project:
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON -DBUILD_EXAMPLES=OFF -DBUILD_PYTHON_MODULE=OFF -DBUILD_CACHED_CUDA_MANAGER=OFF -DBUILD_WEBRTC=OFF
```
Differently to *header-only* libraries, we need to first to build it:
```terminal
cmake --build build --config Release --target ALL_BUILD
```
And to install it:
```terminal
cmake --build build --config Release --target INSTALL
```

### Cilantro

Same procedure with different settings. The following snippet contains everything but execute line by line in the terminal.

```terminal
cd C:\
git clone https://github.com/kzampog/cilantro.git
cd cilantro
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64 -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX="C:\Program Files\cilantro"
cmake --build build --config Release --target ALL_BUILD
cmake --build build --config Release --target INSTALL
```
That's it for the dependecies!

## Cockroach

Once all the dependecies are isntalled we can install Cockroach.

Cockroach `v.1.0.1` is a header-only library with one single header interface due to its contained size. We don't need to build the library, just installing the headers.

```terminal
cd C:\
git clone https://github.com/ibois-epfl/Cockroach.git
cd cockroach
```
Let's configure and install Cockroach:
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64
cmake --build build --config Release --target install
```

By default, Cockroach will be installed in `C:\Program FIles\Cockroach`.

## Usage

Time to test if Cockroach is working. The example project `examples\show_bug` can be used as template to use Cockroach.

```terminal
cd C:\cockroach\examples\show_bug
mkdir build
```
Configure the projeect
```terminal
cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 16 2019" -A x64
```
Build the project
```terminal
cmake --build build --config Release
```
or alternatively by using the MSbuild.exe. Just be sure that it is in your environment path.
```terminal
MSBuild.exe -t:rebuild build/<name-of-the-project>.sln /property:Configuration=Release
```
And just launch the producecd .exe file
```terminal
"build\Release\show_bug.exe"
```
If everything is working, you should be able to visualize this "bug":

![showthebug](https://github.com/ibois-epfl/Cockroach-documentation/blob/docu-alpha/img/snap_bug_success.PNG?raw=true)
